One of the features that came with ES6 is the addition of let and const, which can be used for variable declaration. The question is, what makes them different from good ol' var which we've been using? If you are still not clear about this, then this article is for you.

In this article, we'll discuss var, let and const  with respect to their scope, use, and hoisting. As you read, take note of the differences between them that I'll point out.
Var

Before the advent of ES6, var declarations ruled. There are issues associated with variables declared with var, though. That is why it was necessary for new ways to declare variables to emerge. First, let's get to understand var more before we discuss those issues.
Scope of var

Scope essentially means where these variables are available for use. var declarations are globally scoped or function/locally scoped.

The scope is global when a var variable is declared outside a function. This means that any variable that is declared with var outside a function block is available for use in the whole window.

var is function scoped when it is declared within a function. This means that it is available and can be accessed only within that function.

To understand further, look at the example below.

    var greeter = "hey hi";
    
    function newFunction() {
        var hello = "hello";
    }















let is now preferred for variable declaration. It's no surprise as it comes as an improvement to var declarations. It also solves the problem with var that we just covered. Let's consider why this is so.
let is block scoped

A block is a chunk of code bounded by {}. A block lives in curly braces. Anything within curly braces is a block.

So a variable declared in a block with let  is only available for use within that block. Let me explain this with an example:

   let greeting = "say Hi";
   let times = 4;

   if (times > 3) {
        let hello = "say Hello instead";
        console.log(hello);// "say Hello instead"
    }
   console.log(hello) // hello is not defined
















Const

Variables declared with the const maintain constant values. const declarations share some similarities with let declarations.
const declarations are block scoped

Like let declarations, const declarations can only be accessed within the block they were declared.
const cannot be updated or re-declared

This means that the value of a variable declared with const remains the same within its scope. It cannot be updated or re-declared. So if we declare a variable with const, we can neither do this:

    const greeting = "say Hi";
    greeting = "say Hello instead";// error: Assignment to constant variable. 
